---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: Ask the Right Way
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-09-05
labels:

---
  There’s no such thing as a dumb question but there is a dumb way to ask questions, and yes, there’s a difference. There is no shame in asking someone with more experience with software engineering; they are a great source, afterall. Yet, to get a satisfactory answer you have to ask the right way. I don’t mean you have to ask in a kind manner, I mean you have to ask in a smart manner. Otherwise, some of your peers may not take you seriously and may ignore your question all together, and you can’t learn if no one is there to teach. Asking smart questions helps you learn and grow as a software engineer; asking a smart question means you’ve done the research and are acutally putting in the effort. Not just expecting others to do the work for you. If you'd like to know more about asking smart questions, I'd reccomend reading over 
  
  
  ## Smart Question
  
  
  ```
  I have a multi-users chat web pages written in js and socket.io.

Many users can send messages simultaneously, when I receive a message, I need to run a function that changes the innerHTML of a DIV.

However, suppose there are 1000 messages send to be simultaneously, I want to run THAT function in sequence, one time after another.

i.e. DO NOT run another call for that function UNTIL last call is completed. (And the GLOBAL variables inside that function will NOT be changed by another call of the SAME function, until the current call is completed)

e.g. (I write the following example by using timer instead of socket.io event since it is much simple to understand)

Below is the Javascript:

var gInteger = 0;
var gbolChanging = false;

function changeInteger (intChange) {
  if (!gbolChanging) {
    gbolChanging = true;
	  gInteger += intChange;
    divInteger.innerHTML = gInteger;
    gbolChanging = false;
  }
}

var timer1 = setInterval(changeInteger, 1, 1);
var timer2 = setInterval(changeInteger, 1, -1);
  ```
  This asker also explains when running his code, the actual results do not match the expected results . As we can see, this question is informative and specific. The asker specifically states what he is trying to accomplish, how he had attempted to do so, and what the symptoms are. 
  
  
  ## Not So Smart Question 

  
  
  ```
    How can I loop through all the entries in an array using JavaScript?

I thought it was something like this:

forEach(instance in theArray)
Where theArray is my array, but this seems to be incorrect.
```

In this example, we can see that the person asking the question that they didn't do their research beforehand. If they had, they probably would be able to understand how to use the forEach function since there are a lot of resources for this. Perhaps someone doesn't understand even after going through those resources, then in that case, emphasize what it is that you don't understand about it. Do you not understand what the parameter of the function should be? Do you not understand exactly what the function does? This asker also appears to have guessed at how to use the forEach() function rather than how to actually use it. 

## An interesting read
  For those of you reading this, I would reccomend you also read "How to Ask Questions the Smart Way", by Eric Steven Raymond. Raymond goes over, in detail, how to ask questions in a smart manner. 
  
  
 ---
